[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: I'm guessing
if there was one wish most
of you could have fulfilled,
it might be to have highly
functioning psychic abilities.
In truth, it's
already inside of you
but may need to be
coaxed out a bit.
Belief and conditioning
are the challenge.
Erika Gabriel is with
us today to speak
about the elements of
psychic functioning
she's been practicing
since she was
a child and some of
the tougher subjects
that we encounter in life.
So good to have you here, Erika.
>> ERIKA GABRIEL: Oh, it's
wonderful to be with you.
Thank you for having me.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
you, your past as a child,
a little bit of a dark night
that you had to go through that
kicked things into action, which
often seems to be the case.
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
Yeah, I've been a medium
since I was a child.
And that was a confusing
time because it's basically
something you can't put your
finger on when you're so young.
And you don't even
know what it is.
So when I was about seven years
old, I moved to a new house
with my family.
And I started seeing a
little boy around the house.
And I got up the courage.
When you're young,
you're like you
get afraid to talk
to adults sometimes.
I worked up the courage
to tell my parents.
And I knew it was really weird.
And they did some digging.
And they found out
from a neighbor
that a little boy had
died on that property.
So that's part of how
it started, although I
was an extremely
empathic child, I
sensed things about people from
a very early age and energy.
And having that knowingness
led me on a lifelong journey
to realize I was, in
fact, a spiritual medium
and was connecting with spirit.
>> REGINA: Did your position in
your family and the way they saw
you over time come into a
position of trust where if you
saw something, they
would actually,
even when you were young,
take you seriously?
>> GABRIEL: I think I didn't
practice my mediumship
or my abilities for a long time.
But when I--
>> REGINA: If you saw something,
would you say something
to the grown-ups or just
keep it to yourself?
>> GABRIEL: I would.
And it would usually be
about a person living
that I would sense about
them or energy about them
and let them know I'm
not comfortable with them
or why I was avoiding
a certain situation.
It was very much the
empathy component
as a child that was
really in high gear.
And a lot of the other stuff--
I mean, I was really,
really scared of ghosts.
And that's what I thought.
I thought, oh my gosh, am
I just a haunted person?
As a kid, you read spooky
stories and see spooky movies.
So I thought that as a child.
Oh my gosh, I'm haunted.
Everything's haunted.
So when my parents knew that.
They knew that.
And I slept on their
floor till I was 12,
like in a sleeping bag.
Yeah, because I was terrified.
I was scared to be alone.
I was afraid of the
dark, which is common.
>> REGINA: Well, it's good that
they didn't try to talk you out
of it, tell you, you were
silly, and go sleep by yourself.
>> GABRIEL: That's right.
And--
>> REGINA: That was a gift.
>> GABRIEL: Exactly.
And my mom, she got
remarried to my stepdad.
And he is so lovely.
And I love this story, and
it always makes everyone cry.
But I was so scared,
and I laid in my bed.
And he said, listen, this
is what we're going to do.
And he tied a string
around my finger.
And he ran it out of my
room, down the hallway,
into their room, and he
tied it around his finger.
And whenever I got
scared, I would tug on it,
and he would come.
>> REGINA: What a
loving, sweet soul.
>> GABRIEL: Oh my gosh,
I love him so much.
And I remember that story fondly
because I had that support.
And it helps me
remember, gosh, I really
was in such a way not
knowing what all this was.
>> REGINA: Well, it gave you
the opportunity to not feel
frightened and alone with the
experiences that we're going
to develop into something much
more profound as you got older.
So mediumship-- and we're going
to talk about different kinds.
You talk about evidential
mediumship and what defines us.
But I wanted to ask something I
wasn't planning on asking you.
One well-known medium,
certainly about 10 years ago,
used to say that
when we're talking,
to quote, "the
deceased," there's
always this argument of where
the soul goes versus where
the remnant of that
person's personality goes
and what that consists of.
Is it still a
remaining astral form?
And he was saying it might
even be, as you the person
that wants to have
the question answered,
dwell on, think about,
and feel this person.
You're actually almost
conjuring those pieces
to come back together to
create that astral body.
What is your perception
of all of that?
What are you talking to?
>> GABRIEL: Yeah, what's so
amazing is many things are true
all at once.
And when I am
working with spirit,
I see the soul come and slow
their energy down and reconnect
with who they were.
>> REGINA: OK, so they
remanifest themselves in essence
for you to be able to talk
through that personality?
>> GABRIEL: Correct.
And sometimes people
that I'm reading
for can be really frustrated
because they're like, wait,
he wouldn't have said that.
He was really an angry person.
And so the soul and
spirit is like, oh, right.
I have to remember that.
And go into those memories
as that incarnation
and bring forward
those messages so
that I can help my loved
one that's still living.
So they will have to
remember and come back down
to really regain that
level of consciousness.
>> REGINA: Almost reconstitute
it because some of these souls
have not only passed on but have
reincarnated even in some cases.
>> GABRIEL: Well, I have
definitely read where someone
feels very, very, very far away.
And I also read for
people all the time
where it's like, oh my gosh,
they're right there, very close.
But I can sense when
someone is deep, deep,
deep into the spiritual realm.
>> REGINA: Uh-huh, OK.
Yeah, and it just
feels a distance.
And it's a slightly
slower transmission maybe?
>> GABRIEL: Yes, and a
higher level vibration.
But--
>> REGINA: Without the hallmarks
of the personality, so to speak.
>> GABRIEL: Correct.
So I can sense them.
I can sense what's
happening with their energy.
But they have really unplugged
from who they were in some ways.
But the love remains, and
the connection remains.
And that's what's so amazing
about talking to spirit.
It's like it is still there.
The connection remains.
>> REGINA: And also,
we have soul families.
So that has been before,
and it will be again.
So I would think the
love would continue,
the connection would continue.
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
And what's amazing is getting
into the conversation about time
and time being an illusion,
I do see loved ones
wait for their loved
ones to cross over
so that they can greet them.
Now, in other levels
or dimensions,
they may have reincarnated.
But you are met.
So--
>> REGINA: By that aspect.
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
And by your loved ones
when you cross over.
So some people are
like, oh my gosh,
are they going to wait for me?
It's like, yeah, they are.
They're waiting.
>> REGINA: Yeah, that's good to
know because we have to remember
we are multidimensional.
And when we pass, we are
still multidimensional.
>> GABRIEL: That's it, yes.
>> REGINA: So we can be doing
a couple of things or more
at once, and so not to try to
nail it down into one category.
Yeah, I think that's important.
So you do what's called
evidential mediumship.
So let's talk about
what that means.
>> GABRIEL: So what's
interesting about that is when I
am connecting to
someone's loved one,
they bring through
really specific messages.
Again, sometimes they're
on different levels.
But they will bring
through messages
to serve that person
and messages that
are relevant to them.
So they understand, oh, yes,
that was their personality.
Or oh, yes, we did love
watching that movie together.
And they can make
that connection.
Even here on the Earth plane
where people are super spiritual
and they're wanting to
connect, the mind sometimes
does not let us believe that
we're connecting, and that's OK.
It's OK to really want
to think about things
and not just accept everything.
So with this evidence is you get
specific messages coming through
from that person.
In the mediumship
that I do as well
is people's angels and
their incredible team
and spirit, their
army, I call them,
their spirit guides, their
angels, even animal spirits
come through with
messages as well.
So you're not just going to talk
to someone who's crossed over.
There's so much information that
can come through in a reading.
>> REGINA: Do you often
experience-- for example,
our household pets, our little
household companions are kitties
and dogs and such
that come through?
>> GABRIEL: Yes.
Yes, and it makes
people so happy.
And sometimes I'll see
a person's loved one
with that pet.
So they'll show me
themselves holding
a little white fluffy dog.
And I'm like, your little
dog, your white fluffy dog,
I can see them behind you.
>> REGINA: You must have said
that because my white fluffy dog
passed not that long ago.
And that must be why you
picked up white and fluffy.
But yeah.
And then do the little
animals sometimes
have their own messages
for people as well?
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
And what's amazing-- and it
almost can seem hard to believe.
But animals are just such
sweet, loving, angelic souls.
So they bring through
so many messages
just to help the person
that they were here for.
It's so much about--
you are wonderful.
>> REGINA: I love you.
I love you.
>> GABRIEL: Yes, and
I really would say--
and this brings people
so much healing,
and I really want to
get this message out--
animals are not attached
to longevity like humans.
>> REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>> GABRIEL: So people say, oh
my gosh, I had to put them down,
or they were only
here for a few years.
It's like your
animal's cool, man.
>> REGINA: Yeah, they're cool.
>> GABRIEL: They're cool.
They are not like
us that's wanting
to live as long as possible.
>> REGINA: Yeah, that's good.
Thank you for that.
OK, so now what
about the other kind
of mediumship, which is
more predictive in nature?
What's your
relationship to that?
>> GABRIEL: Yeah, so again,
what's so cool about working
with the guides that I work with
is that if there is a psychic
message or predictive message
that would really serve
the person I'm reading
through, it comes through.
So I never guarantee
that a psychic message
will come through in a
reading because I don't know.
I'm available to spirit in a
safe, very well-trained way.
But I don't know if it's
going to be psychic reading.
But at oftentimes,
there is because there
are messages that would so
steer that person on their path
and serve them in
such a way that they
need to hear that message.
>> REGINA: Yeah, I'm sorry.
Did you have more
to say on that?
>> GABRIEL: No, no, but
sometimes we do want--
and thank you.
Sometimes we so
desperately want like,
just tell me how many months
till I meet that person.
And we want it.
But if our guides
tell us that, it
takes away our
journey and our path.
And your guides, they're
not puppet masters.
They're not trying to control
you or take anything away.
They're trying to help you.
So those psychic messages
really come through
if they're absolutely necessary.
>> REGINA: And one thing I find
just fascinating about it other
than--
I mean, granted, we are
multidimensional in nature.
So we have agreements
on a soul level
that our conscious mind has no
idea about, number one, which
is a problem.
It's a problem.
We need to start catching up
and chatting with the soul
as closely as the
conscious mind, for sure.
But if we're asking about things
that involve other human beings,
really, what you're getting is
the culmination and direction
of energy in that moment
in terms of the agreements
or complements between people.
But it's really just
stamped more in the moment
of the energy's direction.
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
And there are sliding glass
doors all over our lives.
And we're here for a reason.
We have a soul's purpose.
We have a reason for being here.
We have many reasons.
A lot of people have
a huge course load
when they come to Earth.
They don't just have one
thing they're here for.
And so we have certain things in
our path that truly are destiny.
We have certain things that
we are destined for that.
That was absolutely meant to be.
But a lot of things are
choose your own adventure.
I didn't choose to wear
this shirt today in spirit
before I came here.
There's a lot of choose
your own adventure.
>> REGINA: Yeah, and we're
going to get to that,
that whole free will part,
and what do you want to do.
But following
through on that, I'm
going to use one
personal example,
try to get through it quickly.
I had this idea many years ago.
It was the late '80s.
And I thought we need to
start having a television
show on the news that talks
about alternative methods
of healing.
We can't just go for
the same medical model.
So worked it out,
had a great agent.
That happened, signed a
contract, prominent company
that serves the news stations.
Everything was lined up.
And boom, events
started happening.
Time bought that company.
They said, hold on till we
get our bearings with Time.
Warner bought Time.
Hold on another six months or a
year till we get our bearings,
till everyone says, oh, no,
we're dumping that division.
All agreements were made
between all the parties,
but stuff happens.
However, many years
later, in 2012,
I end up doing the
exact same thing
that I had intended to do on
Gaia under the name of "Healing
Matrix."
So it pops up what, years
later, from '89 to 2012.
And so if it's
really meant to be,
even if it looks
disappointing in the moment,
it doesn't mean it's somehow
not still working through you.
>> GABRIEL: I mean, I
couldn't agree more.
And I will say, when you were
telling me that story, I'm like,
rejection is protection.
Rejection is protection.
It just wasn't meant
to be at that time.
And I love that you
held on to that idea.
And I love the idea--
something I love to say
is if you go chasing
butterflies, they run from you.
But if you just create a garden
for them, they will come.
And you kept cultivating
that and that idea.
And it's so awesome
that that happened here
in an even better place
and an even better way.
>> REGINA: More appropriate
time when people were more open
to that than back then.
But anyway, I just want to
bring that up because sometimes
it's just timing, and
it's just players.
And players have choices.
So the other one is a lot
of people will say to you,
I just don't know
what I'm here for.
I don't understand my purpose.
Now, one thing my
guides used to say
when I'd hear them
talk to other people
is, well, what do
you want to do?
What would you like to do
when they say, why am I here?
So let's talk about
this whole notion
of free will in terms of what
we're here to do because some
of it's written in the stars.
But that's imprinted on the
soul who's made a choice.
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
And that is one of
the huge questions
that spirit asks people.
What do you want?
And they go, I don't know.
And then they say, if you've got
everything you've ever wanted,
would you be ready?
And they go, no, I'm
not ready at all.
And it's like why?
Because there are blocks in
our path, really big blocks.
And part of our
journey here as humans
is to find out what
those blocks are
and work and love ourselves
enough to move them out
of the way so that
we can find our path.
We get plugged
into power sources
that really have
influence and control
our lives, like trauma response,
like victimhood, like fear.
And we can't get
through those blocks,
and so we don't
know what we want.
And then if we find a way to
move through those, then we go,
OK, I'm ready to come
up with my vision.
What do I want?
And then we get into
imposter syndrome,
and then we get
into guilt. And then
we get into all
these other blocks.
So really creating
a powerful practice
for yourself on how to quiet
the mind and go within,
that is the true
path and true journey
to getting to your
soul's purpose.
Before you start
going, What do I want?
What would be amazing?
it's like let's work on how
to quiet so you can listen
to the magic of your soul.
And then you're
going to find it.
And then you're going to be the
person that's creating a garden,
and all the butterflies
are going to come to you.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
Perfectly said.
OK, so now we're
looking at free will.
We're looking at
choice, and we're
looking at choice from
different levels of our being.
So how often do you see it where
a person is-- doesn't matter.
They're in relation to
something, relationship
to something, someone, some
entity, corporation, whatever.
But the larger decision
was made even before birth
that this was to play out.
And we talked about it
before, but the conscious mind
isn't aware of these decisions.
And how often do you see
that where there is free
will, but it's at a higher
level than ordinary free will
and certain instances?
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
Because before we came
here, we're in spirit.
We're looking at our life.
Why even come?
Why come to Earth?
Well, we're here to learn.
We're evolving our soul.
We're elevating humanity.
We're contributing to
God, the oneness, whole.
We're all connected.
And so we do.
We have certain things in our
path that were meant to be.
I do not-- and my guides
also tell me over and over
again not every single
thing is meant to be.
>> REGINA: No, no.
>> GABRIEL: You know that
blanket statement like, well,
if it's meant--
>> REGINA: And maybe two or
three key things in life.
And you still get to watch to
see how you interface with it
and how you make decisions
around what the soul has already
determined in those few things.
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
So there are things in our path.
And then many things are just
choose our own adventure.
Which way are we going?
What path are we choosing?
And it's important to--
at that point is really
looking at and examining your
own faith and your own ability
to surrender and your own
search for your own connection
to God because God is
definitely not someone wandering
outside of us.
God is within each of us.
And that spark, I
call it God spark.
That spark runs through
every single one of us.
And the more you can
connect with that spark,
the more you can plug in to
that higher connection to God
to have faith and to
keep moving forward.
So when things do happen
that you're like, why?
Why is that there?
When things do happen,
you go back in.
You go into God.
You go into spirit, whatever
you want to call it,
doesn't have to be God.
But you go back in.
And you get to that place of
faith and say, all is well.
And I'm going to
continue down my path.
>> REGINA: And you said
spark a moment ago,
and that brought up in me an
important thing that has been
marginalized oftentimes in
Eastern traditions that have
beautiful elements.
And that is the spark of desire.
Everything-- everything
exists due to desire.
Even from the original
spark of the creator's mind,
there has to be a
desire to see an effect
or to create something.
So how much have human beings,
from your perspective looking
at them, given over
their sovereignty
and desire to this outside
societal conditioning?
>> GABRIEL: I mean, yes.
Yes and yes.
That is so huge.
We basically have
taken our power
and plugged into
different power sources.
I love to use plugs,
where we plug in.
That visual just helps
me understand things.
We do.
We plug into outside authority.
We plug into--
I love the news.
I have friends that do the news.
I'm very well
informed in the world.
But we sometimes plug into the
fear component only of news.
We're being totally controlled.
And we're just almost
walking through life
with our eyes closed.
And we're not connecting
to anything that
feels authentic or real to us.
>> REGINA: That spark of desire
inside of us has been really
almost covered in
a layer of dirt.
>> GABRIEL: Yes, yes.
>> REGINA: The dirt of the noise
of society and conditioning
and fear is covering this
beautiful spark of desire in us.
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
It's like we get numb.
And I'll tell you an
interesting story.
This is a very grounded
story, just for people
to understand as well.
Last night, I was staying in a
hotel, and the power went out.
And the silence woke
me up, the silence.
That is how much electricity and
internet and electrical energy
we have running
through our lives,
which that can even
scramble us and make us just
completely detached
from ourselves.
>> REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
>> GABRIEL: And I
mean, I have a car.
I love my cell phone.
So I'm not putting that down.
We need these things
to stay connected.
But to take those moments where
you just go out in nature,
you listen to your
own magic, that
is what is going to help
people truly get to the place
where they find their
purpose and really know
that they're here for a reason.
>> REGINA: You're right.
And I've been doing
this a really long time,
this thing I'm doing
now for a long time.
And I have to say the one
thing-- doesn't matter what
tradition, what the subject is
that comes up over and over--
is if you really want to hear
yourself, go out to nature.
She's the quiet place where
you can find yourself,
that you have real
sustenance from,
whether it's under the
stars or from the trees
or from the ocean.
It's supporting and speaking
to you and quieting you.
>> GABRIEL: Yes, absolutely.
And what I do sometimes
is I walk around
barefoot in the dirt.
And I can actually
feel the Earth
absorbing the electrical
energy in my body.
I think the other thing
that's really important
and I want everyone
to really know
is that your intention is
everything in this world
right now, your intentions.
So even if you're sitting in a
busy office with tons of Wi-Fi
and lots going on, you can sit
in your chair for four minutes.
It doesn't have to be a
three-hour meditation, for four
minutes and close your
eyes and just say,
my intention is to ground
back down into my body,
to hear the magic of my
soul, to hear my breath,
and for the universe
and for the Earth
to support me and absorb any
unwanted negativity that's
running through my body or
through my energy space.
And you can just sit down
and listen to your breath
to reground yourself.
Just taking that time, just
something small is huge.
When we hear these messages,
sometimes we think, oh my gosh,
I have so much work to do.
I need to do meditation
for an hour every day.
I have to do all these things,
and it can seem daunting.
And so we just push it away.
It seems like another
thing on our to-do list.
But I think just even
a few minutes a day--
>> REGINA: Yeah, I agree.
>> GABRIEL: Yes, you're
going to see a huge change.
So just start there
and watch what happens.
It's a miracle.
>> REGINA: Perfect.
Yeah, let's get into one
of the thornier subjects
of being human, which
is when we can't
handle the challenge
anymore, when
the noises become too great.
And we can't even
feel ourselves,
and we're ready to give up.
And right now, as we all
know-- and it's been coming up
in my interviews for
a couple of years now,
and it's coming up in
your life every week--
and we're now talking
about suicide.
Oftentimes it's young people.
Oftentimes it's young males.
Let's talk about
the subject and how
you're seeing it when
the grieving family comes
to you in all its dimensions.
>> GABRIEL: Yeah, and this has
a huge part in my personal life
and in my work life.
My dearest and oldest
friend, the most gentle,
speaking of butterflies, spirit,
she died by suicide a mile
from my home, who was just
a happy, beautiful soul.
And in my work, I have
never, ever experienced--
I've been reading for 16 years.
In the past two
years, I have never
experienced more people
coming to connect
with spirit because-- have
lost someone from suicide.
And it's an epidemic.
It's just everywhere.
And like you said, young
people, but I'm also
seeing people older.
They're married.
They have kids.
They have friends.
They have a life.
And nobody could ever think,
and they're just gone.
>> REGINA: Yeah, you're
not hearing that reported
on as much.
>> GABRIEL: I talk to
a lot a lot of people.
>> REGINA: So is there a theme?
Let's take that genre or that
demographic of people that
have a life, and they're older.
They've had their kids.
Is there any kind
of common theme
that's coming through as to why
they're choosing to do this?
>> GABRIEL: A lot of
times, first of all,
I hear a lot of people
say, oh my gosh,
I just made the biggest mistake.
>> REGINA: That's what I've
heard from other mediums.
>> GABRIEL: A lot.
I made a mistake.
And also, I'm OK.
I'm OK.
And I see it, and I get it.
I think what happens is
people get to a point,
and they feel that there is
literally nothing for them
and no way out.
And in fact, people
that are older,
that have kids,
that have a home--
>> REGINA: They've done it all.
>> GABRIEL: Correct.
Or they just feel nothing,
and they don't feel anything.
But I will say also,
although we are
OK when we go into spirit,
my big, big message is stay.
Stay here.
Do not die by suicide.
Stay with us.
Stay here.
There are miracles and shifts
and transitions and awakening.
I also see that so much in my
readings, people that wanted--
they were this close to
letting go, and they stayed.
And now they've written
a book about depression,
or they've written
a book about this.
Or they've helped youth
that are troubled.
So your purpose is right there.
Don't give up.
>> REGINA: Yeah, and we can help
others that we know that may be
going through, or we're sensing
there's a crisis and let them
know this.
What about the kids, the young
ones that are doing this?
Again, any common themes?
>> GABRIEL: Yeah, what's
happening is kids are being
inundated with so
much information.
And they're confused.
They're completely scrambled.
These young people, they're
scrambled, and they're hurting.
A lot of these souls are like
this brave soldier, lightworker,
warrior souls that
come in, guns blazing.
I'm ready to go,
and they get here.
And they're like, oh my
god, this is too much.
And then they look for
ways to feel better.
So they're looking for drugs.
They look to drugs.
They look to alcohol.
They look to internet addiction.
And they're just looking
for a way to feel better.
And it doesn't make
them feel better,
and they don't want
to stay here anymore.
>> REGINA: So a lot of these
suicides are really accidental
overdoses.
>> GABRIEL: Correct.
And the interesting thing also--
with accidental
overdoses, absolutely.
And also, people that-- and
this happens every week.
My spouse, my
friend, my brother,
my cousin went to a bachelor
party, went to a birthday party,
wasn't into drugs, really
wasn't into drugs at all.
Some people were doing drugs
that, oh, you know what?
I'm going to do it one time.
And they died instantly
because the drugs are not--
>> REGINA: Their
body's not used to it.
>> GABRIEL: They're
not used to it.
And also, what's in the
drugs, it's not like 1975.
>> REGINA: Yeah, yeah, not pure.
>> GABRIEL: No.
So I'm not condoning
doing any drugs.
And also, the drugs that are
out right now is really scary.
They're filled with things
that just stop your heart.
>> REGINA: So you're seeing
this quite a bit, recreational,
just dying like that.
>> GABRIEL: Dying like that.
>> REGINA: So just
complete accidents,
that's not a part you
hear much about either.
>> GABRIEL: Exactly.
Total, total
accidental overdoses.
So I know we're talking
about dying by suicide.
And as we lead in
with drugs, it's
like that is also happening.
And I want to mention
that because it's
happening to so many people
all over our country.
>> REGINA: Yeah, thank
you for sharing that.
Another topic that is
particularly painful to people--
and I don't know if it's on the
increase or decrease or what--
and that is the subject of SIDS,
Sudden Infant Death Syndrome.
This happened to a
friend of our family's
recently, where a bouncing
healthy baby boy is healthy
as can be at 5:30 AM.
And dad comes back at
7:00, and they're gone.
And this has a lot
of implications.
There are a lot of
moving parts with this.
Could you please share this?
>> GABRIEL: There are
so many moving parts.
And for me, as a
medium, the first thing
I will say to that is I have
never, ever given a reading
and gone into spirit and seen
lost, scared crying babies.
So I just want to say that
because your soul that
came to you, even for
a short time, is OK.
And then people say, but if
they're greeted by loved ones,
they didn't know our loved ones.
They died before they came.
There is a soul recognition.
They are greeted, and
they are really OK.
So there's a couple
components with it.
There's a lot of components.
That's very layered.
But--
>> REGINA: Go ahead and share.
First, is that increased at all?
Or is it-- in these times?
>> GABRIEL: Yes.
>> REGINA: Because I would think
that it's so crazy out there.
A soul comes in
and, at three, says,
I think I'm going to pull
back and maybe wait a while,
jump back in.
>> GABRIEL: Yes, exactly.
Well, there's a
couple of layers.
So number one,
sometimes those souls
come in to fulfill a certain
contract with their parent
that they came to.
So they come in.
There's a contract
that they fulfill.
And then they leave.
Sometimes they also come in
because their parent is actually
on their last life.
They're not coming back again.
>> REGINA: OK, explain
that one a bit.
>> GABRIEL: They are
experiencing-- basically,
the most horrible thing that
can happen to a human is losing
a child.
And it is the depths
of human suffering.
And there is nothing that spirit
can say to have that fully
make sense to our minds.
And there's also
nothing that spirit can
say to make it less painful.
They can give mental
solutions to help us
when we're in the depths
of grief and despair,
somewhere for your mind to go
or some things to hold on to.
But there is nothing
that spirit can
do that takes away suffering.
And that's so, so
frustrating and challenging.
>> REGINA: Yeah, well, that
would be one of those final
lifetime lessons.
So save the big one for last.
And also, my
understanding is there
are times, which I was
saying in a lighthearted way
a bit ago, where a soul comes
in and says, you know what?
The dynamic isn't
playing out in a way
that I thought
would support what
I wanted to do in this
lifetime, what I came to do.
And the timing isn't right.
And so they'll leave
but sometimes even
come back through the
same mother in that family
a little later on when the
situation has shifted a bit.
>> GABRIEL: Absolutely.
So many times they cross over.
And then the next child they
have, they come back to them.
Oh, absolutely, but
not all the time.
Sometimes they stay
in spirit and are
looking over the next
sibling that comes along.
The other amazing thing that
I've seen with these young souls
is they come in sometimes
with one purpose--
to experience pure
love and true love.
And what parents--
>> REGINA: Which
you get as a baby.
>> GABRIEL: That's it.
And their parents give them
that, and they go, thank you.
Peace.
>> REGINA: Peace.
>> GABRIEL: I'm out of here.
>> REGINA: Gotta go.
>> GABRIEL: Yes, exactly.
>> REGINA: That's
just so horrible.
>> GABRIEL: Oh, it is the
depths of human suffering.
And there's no way to
really take that away.
It's horrible.
>> REGINA: So what
about soulmates?
We have a lot of very loaded
ideas about what soulmates mean.
And soul mate can be really any
configuration of relationship
between any two people.
But we tend to confine it
to a love relationship,
an intimate relationship, which
is where we're going to go off,
and we're going to fly with
the butterflies together.
No.
So let's talk about what you
see as true, deep soul mate
agreements.
>> GABRIEL: Yeah, so what
surprises me when I work with
spirit on soul mates is we
don't just have to have one.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it can
be more than one, yeah.
>> GABRIEL: We can have many.
Your mom could be your soul
mate and your best friend.
And the person that you end up
with that you love desperately,
your partner or husband,
wife, boyfriend, girlfriend,
whatever that you end up
with can be a teacher,
is actually your teacher,
not your soul mate.
So there's all different
soulmates that come in.
And every once in a while, I
do see people that are together
or married or life partners, and
they are each other's soul mate.
And that's a very intense kind
of coming together as well.
>> REGINA: And don't they
usually come together for really
deep learning?
>> GABRIEL: Definitely, very
deep learning or very deep gift.
So they have a lot of other
things going on in their life
or with their soul's purpose.
And they go, guess
what's going to be easy?
My love relationships.
And it's going to-- yeah,
it's going to be butterflies.
It's like have you ever met
those people that are like,
I met my person in
eighth grade, and we've
been in love ever since?
And we--
>> REGINA: I actually
have met people like that.
>> GABRIEL: Me too, you know.
And they're my person forever.
And we love each other,
and we have a blast.
And you're like, really?
>> REGINA: Yeah,
how'd that happen?
>> GABRIEL: Interesting.
Yeah, exactly.
But it does happen.
And you don't know
what everyone's path is
or what everyone's purpose is.
And that's why I always
say, don't compare yourself
to other people.
You don't know their journey.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
And you don't know what your
soul has planned for you
to learn in this lifetime.
Maybe next time, you get
to marry your high school
sweetheart.
>> GABRIEL: Hey, there you go.
>> REGINA: Next time.
This is not for right now.
>> GABRIEL: Correct.
>> REGINA: Because there are
rest lifetimes and hard work
lifetimes.
And I think all souls vacillate.
I mean, we're always
here to learn and refine.
But sometimes we don't choose
as hard a path as others.
>> GABRIEL: Agree.
I have friends that--
they're beautiful.
They walk on sunshine.
They're the happiest people.
They were born on
the sunshiniest day.
I'm like, oh my gosh,
this is their last one.
They've learned everything.
They have just a little
sprinkle of things.
>> REGINA: Or maybe it's just a
little rest because next time,
there's some real work to do.
>> GABRIEL: I like that.
It's their rest, or maybe
it's their very first life.
And they're like,
take it easy on me.
Make this one a fabulous one.
>> REGINA: Show
how good it can be.
>> GABRIEL: Yes, exactly.
>> REGINA: So there's another--
so now we get to the
topic of people starting
to tap into their own
intuition, and they're starting
to get messages from beings.
Let's talk about the
discernment factor
there because we
might not always
be speaking to our
best guides and angels.
And maybe give us an
example or two and then
how we can start
discerning between those.
>> GABRIEL: I love that
because in the work that I do,
so many people
come to me saying,
I had this amazing experience.
And now I want to help
people and be a medium.
And I'm like, that
is amazing, and I
want to help people to do that.
And also, hold on a minute.
Don't go out and start giving
people messages right away.
You have to really
work and understand
who you're talking to,
which is what you're asking.
Am I talking to my
guides, my angels,
a loved one who crossed over?
Or am I talking to that
level of stuck energy
that we were talking about?
And so the idea is
you have to practice.
You have to practice, and you
have to work at it, really.
It doesn't have to be
arduous, or some people
move very quickly.
Some people move slowly.
But if you don't have a good
relationship with your spirit
guides and you don't
know who you're
going to be working with
when you're doing a reading
or you're listening
to a message,
I would say just focus on that.
Focus on your
relationship to who
you're talking to
first before you
go out and talk to anyone else
or take what they're saying.
So start working with
your spirit guides.
Who are they?
What do they look like?
I literally teach
an intensive on how
to do that because
it's so important.
>> REGINA: It's very important.
>> GABRIEL: Yes.
>> REGINA: So let's say you've
gone to someone who's a reader
or has just started reading.
And you're getting
information that's
really making you
feel uncomfortable,
not just challenge
but uncomfortable.
Maybe there is some fear.
It feels like fear flowing
through some of the messages.
How do you start discerning
who not to pay attention to?
>> GABRIEL: The minute you
get that feeling, let it go.
No, thank you.
And just disconnect
from that information.
I always tell people that we
have thousands and thousands
of thoughts every day.
You don't have to hang on to
each and every one of them,
so meaning we have
that information
coming to us, which puts
a thought in our mind.
And we go, oh, this
feels really weird.
I don't like this.
And it's like, good.
Awesome.
Leave.
You know what I mean?
Move on.
Let it go.
And let it go is such
a challenging thing.
You know what I mean?
When you're stuck on
something and someone goes,
let it go, you're like,
oh, I didn't think of that.
Thanks.
It can be hard to do.
But release anything
that doesn't feel good
and doesn't serve
you, especially when
working in the spirit realm.
Trust yourself.
And then go back and
work on your relationship
with your own guides.
>> REGINA: Yeah, because
sometimes people will start
invalidating themselves
and saying, well, I mean,
maybe I do have some
work to do on that.
But that was really
kind of a harsh message.
And they're trying
to talk themselves
into staying with that source,
even though it's not really
feeling very good
in their belly.
>> GABRIEL: Let it go.
And you know what?
>> REGINA: Walk away.
>> GABRIEL: Walk away.
And you know what?
If you hear a message
that you go, I like it,
but I don't like it right now,
just put it in your file drawer
and save it for later because
there may be something--
if you trust the person,
there may be something in that
that your soul will align
with it in a couple of months
or a couple of years.
There are spiritual truths
that my guides have told me--
>> REGINA: You're
not ready for yet.
>> GABRIEL: Yeah, or they've
told me five years ago that
I'm still processing.
And I'm like, get there faster.
Get there faster, Erika.
But you have to go in
divine timing and really,
and what your soul is ready to
hear at the time and to take.
>> REGINA: And sometimes you'll
run into situations even where
someone who claims to be
psychically attuned will say,
oh, you owe me.
I died because of you
in my last incarnation.
You owe me.
And I know of these
things personally
that have happened to people.
And especially in the
new age community,
we're so open and
trusting, and so
taking people that say
they're psychic at face value.
So there are some real
keys there to look out for.
>> GABRIEL: It makes me so,
so sad because there are truly
people that their intention
is to serve and to serve God
and spirit and to help.
But I always say,
in every field,
there's people that don't have
good intentions, every field.
>> REGINA: Yeah, no, absolutely.
>> GABRIEL: Yeah, and
I always tell people--
people ask me like, oh,
should I get another reading?
I'm like, I don't know.
Ask your own intuition.
Ask your guides.
Never ask me if you
should get a reading.
People ask me, oh,
should I get a reading?
I have no idea.
I never inspire people
to get readings.
I never tell people, oh, you
should get a reading ever, ever,
ever.
That has to come from you.
And then you pick
someone that you really
feel good about and good with.
And it's so sad that people
are hearing these messages.
And people in readings tell
me, I had someone tell me
once I was going to
die in a car accident.
Can you tell me if that's true?
And it's like, man, right?
>> REGINA: Don't
go back to them.
>> GABRIEL: That's it.
And also, if you hear
it, say, no, thank you.
>> REGINA: Yeah, no thank you.
>> GABRIEL: You are in control.
You're in control
of your energy.
You're in control of what
you want to listen to.
You're in control of
what you attach to.
So part of working
in spirit is really
just trusting yourself and
having your own empowerment.
And for me, a huge part of what
I do every day is grounding.
I am not in spirit.
I am on the Earth.
I'm on the Earth plane.
I want to be here.
And really staying grounded,
staying in the Earth element
so that I can raise my
energy, connect with spirit,
and that people can trust
that they're safe with me
because I am grounded here.
>> REGINA: Yes, very important.
And then the final of
those challenging aspects
to this subject is the guru
complex, where people say,
I am the way.
I have a unique access to
knowledge that not everyone has
and falling under
the power of a guru.
>> GABRIEL: Run.
Run away.
>> REGINA: That's mine.
>> GABRIEL: Run away.
>> REGINA: As soon as
someone says, I know the way,
I have inside knowledge, run.
>> GABRIEL: Run away because I
think there are amazing people
that have amazing knowledge,
actually, that I love.
There's a couple people
that I just love.
And they have
amazing information.
But so do you, and so does every
single person on this planet.
We all do.
So if someone says,
I am the only way,
and these are the
only answers, that's
what you want to run away from
because it's just not true.
There are so many
people on this planet,
and there are so
many different ideas.
And we're so dynamic, and
we all have different paths.
There is simply not one way.
>> REGINA: Yeah, I have
a major issue with gurus.
So I just want to see
where you were on that one.
We're reflecting each other.
We both say, run.
>> GABRIEL: Or skip with joy.
Skip away.
>> REGINA: So we only have
a couple of minutes left.
So what's important for us
to really understand about
ourselves right now when we're
going into a world that's
transcending into
something more beautiful,
but the process is tumultuous,
and there will likely
be more polarization
between us as humans?
What's the best
advice you can give
in terms of what you see showing
up in the souls before you?
>> GABRIEL: Yeah, the best
advice I can give to everyone
right now is I use the idea
of standing on the edge
of an ocean.
You're standing on a
beach, and the waves
are just coming big time.
The waves are coming.
And you're going,
stop, too many waves.
And what I want to say is the
waves are going to keep coming.
They're not going
to stop coming.
But the best advice I can
give is grab a surfboard
and ride them.
Stay on top of them.
And developing--
>> REGINA: Flow with them.
>> GABRIEL: That's it, and
developing your surfboard.
What makes you feel stable?
What makes you feel empowered?
What can you do every
day for yourself
that strengthens your
incredible connection
to God spark or the divine,
whatever you want to call it,
whatever resonates with you?
Work on your
surfboard or a boat.
Build a boat.
But the idea is that our
Earth is shifting and changing
and the waves are coming,
don't be mad at the waves.
Get your surfboard, and
you're going to be OK.
>> REGINA: Perfect.
We'll end on that note.
And next time we
have you on, we'll
talk about things like
the perception of karma
and all of that, OK?
>> GABRIEL: Oh, yeah,
that's a good one.
Yes, yes.
>> REGINA: Thank
you so much, Erika.
>> GABRIEL: Thank you.
It was a blessing.
>> REGINA: Erika has a podcast
called "You Are Not Alone,"
which you can find on her
website, erikagabriel.com.
You can also inquire
about personal sessions.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]